 ## The Team

The XFR Collective team comes from a variety of backgrounds with a multitude of combined experiences and skills, including  video and media arts production, collection management, teaching and research in the humanities, archiving and preservation services, records management, and project development.

### Active Core Members

**Andrea Callard** (Founding Member) is an artist and filmmaker preoccupied with how life feels inside each landscape. Her early films and videos from the 1974-1984 have almost all been preserved and are being screened around the world. Her industrial work documents the inventive recycling practices of Green Planet 21 in the western United States. In New York City, Callard works with the XFR Collective, Inc. to keep early audiovisual work by artists and activists visible. Still a member of Collaborative Projects, Inc. (COLAB), her 1980 photographs documented the iconic Times Square Show and have been published in numerous works of art history.

**Sarah Gentile** is an archivist with a specialization in cultural heritage. She works in the Conservation Department of The Museum of Modern Art, specializing in media conservation. Prior to that, she was Assistant Archivist at Brooklyn Museum’s Digital Lab and later worked at Brooklyn Academy of Music as Digital Archivist project managing the BAM Leon Levy Archives site. She holds a BA from UMASS and an MLIS with a certificate in archival studies from CUNY. Primarily concerned with archival access, she strives to think professionally about forever and a day.

**Caroline Gil** is a media archivist, with experience working with artists, cultural heritage institutions, private art collectors, and non-profits. Caroline has worked at the Smithsonian’s Center for Folklore and Cultural Heritage, the New Art Trust, New York Public Library, Third World Newsreel, Allied Productions, Filmoteca Cataluña, and with media artists’ personal collections. Her areas of interest include Latin American video art, media collectives, experimental filmmakers, and low-cost solutions for digital preservation. She is a recent graduate of NYU’s Moving Image Archiving and Preservation Program and holds a Director of Cinematography MA from Universidad de Barcelona-ESCAC and BA in Visual Arts.

**Kelly Haydon** is the Audiovisual Archivist for NYU Special Collections. Previously, she was the Preservation Manager at Bay Area Video Coalition. She holds degrees from NYU’s Moving Image Archiving and Preservation Program (where she is also an adjunct professor) and School of Visual Arts. In addition to XFR Collective, she is a volunteer archivist at Third World Newsreel.

**Noa Kasman** is an archivist at Kronos Archives/Tusk Strategies. She graduated from the University of Michigan in 2017 with an MSI in Archives and Records Management and Preservation of Information and graduated from Mount Holyoke College in 2012 with a BA in Anthropology.

**Marie Lascu** is a graduate of NYU’s Moving Image Archiving and Preservation (MIAP) M.A. program. She currently works as the Audiovisual Archivist for Crowing Rooster Arts, a non-profit that has spent 20 years documenting the arts and political struggles of Haiti, and as an archival consultant for the Film Society of Lincoln Center. She is a co-founder of Activist Archivists (2011-2015), co-organized the 2015 Personal Digital Archiving Conference hosted by MIAP, and is the 2016 recipient of the Society of American Archivists Spotlight Award.

**Ana Marie** is an Assistant Archivist at New York Public Radio, working on a two year NEH Grant to transfer and preserve ~300 hours of WNYC recordings in the Municipal Archives Collection, created between the 1930s and the 1970s. Read about some of her findings at wnyc.org. Originally from the Austin area, she attended The University of Texas and received a BA in Art History and a MSIS in Information Studies. She was also a DJ for KVRX Student Radio, spinning "none of the hits all of the time." After graduation in 2012, Ana crisscrossed the country, first working with art collection records at the Perlman Teaching Museum at Carleton College in Minnesota and then, most recently, in digital asset management at Phoenix Art Museum in Arizona.

**Robin Margolis** is a graduate from UCLA’s Media Archival Studies program (MLIS MAS), where he received the 2017 MLIS Award for the Advancement of the Profession. He regularly consults for WITNESS Human Rights Video and the Oral History Projects department of the Academy Foundation. He co-coordinated (with fellow XFR core member Kelly Haydon) the DIYCA (Do-It-Yourself and Community Archives) symposium at the 2016 AMIA Conference in Pittsburgh, where he also received the Sony Pictures Scholarship. He regularly teaches workshops and classes including community based archival storytelling, activist centered frameworks for police accountability video, and personal digital archiving as tool for labor history.

**Traci Mark**is a audiovisual archivist at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, New York Public Library in Harlem. Traci specializes in working with cultural heritage institutions and archiving and preservation analog media. In the past she has worked for Anthology Film Archives, WITNESS Human Rights Video, DHX Media, Vtape, Frame Discreet and York University. She is a graduate of Ryerson’s Film Preservation and Collections Management program and holds a BA in Cinema and Media Studies from York University in Toronto, Canada.

**Chris Nicols** is a multimedia archivist and currently works as a Film Archivist at the New York City Municipal Archives. He holds a Masters degree from NYU and previously worked at Storycorps, the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and the Miami-Dade College Wolfson Archive. He specializes in digitizing and managing collections of historical and documentary analog moving image material.

**Lorena Ramírez-López** is a recent graduate from the Moving Image Archiving and Preservation program at New York University. She also received her Bachelors at NYU in both the Cinema Studies and Spanish department where she wrote her undergraduate honors thesis (“Ñe Hendu Kiriri: Listening to Silence in Four Recent Paraguayan Films”) for the Department of Spanish and Portuguese Languages and Literatures. Her main focus is on digital preservation, specifically web archiving, but has also been involved with international archives as part of NYU's Audiovisual Preservation Exchange (APEX) program: Montevideo, Uruguay in 2014 (group member of FAC) and Buenos Aires, Argentina 2015 (co-organizer of APEX) and spent her summer internship at the Museu de Arte Moderna in Rio de Janiero, Brazil.

**Ben Turkus**

**Treva Walsh**

### Members-at-Large

**Brendan Allen** manages the Archives for Democracy Now! He attended the School of Visual Arts and received a BA in English Literature and Media Studies from the University of New Mexico. He worked as a video librarian for Black Entertainment Television in 1998 and then moved to Public Broadcasting Service in Alexandria, VA, where he worked as the library media coordinator. In 2006, Brendan earned a Master’s in Library Information Science at Pratt Institute, while working as the Senior Archivist for the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in New York City.

**Ashley Blewer** is an audiovisual archivist, technologist, and enthusiast. She works as an Applications Developer at the New York Public Library, formerly as a web developer and digital archives consultant. She cares about education (especially in tech), access (especially to moving images), the act of creation (especially on the web), and good archival practice (especially with digital formats). She holds an MLIS (Archives) and BA (Graphic Design) from the University of South Carolina. She is an active contributor to MediaConch, a digital video file conformance checker software project under PREFORMA, funded by the European Commission FP7-ICT Programme.

**Carmel Curtis** was a recent National Digital Stewardship Resident at the Brooklyn Academy of Music where she worked on a project to implement best practices and improve the workflow for the access and preservation of born-digital materials created at BAM. Carmel is a graduate of NYU’s Moving Image Archiving and Preservation Masters program. For her thesis she looked at historical and contemporary access to audiovisual materials for people who have the misfortune of being incarcerated in the United States. With experience in libraries, archives, production environments, and film festivals, Carmel’s passions are in increasing community access to moving image materials. She currently works as an audiovisual archivist for the United Nations.

**Nicole Contaxis** is the Data Catalog Coordinator at the NYU Health Sciences Library where she handles data management, data curation, and researcher outreach. She was previously a National Digital Stewardship Resident hosted by the National Library of Medicine, where she worked on the preservation of software and other interactive digital objects. Prior to NDSR, she worked in the Conservation Lab at UCLA Libraries. Nicole received her MLIS from UCLA, and her BA in History from Wesleyan University.

**Rebecca Fraimow** (Founding Member) works an archivist at WGBH in Boston and serves as a Project Lead for the PBCore metdata standard and the Coordinator for the American Archive of Public Broadcasting's National Digital Stewardship Residency program. She was previously a National Digital Stewardship Resident hosted by WGBH.  In the past, Rebecca has performed video preservation and archival services for the Dance Heritage Coalition, Mercer Media, Seahorse Films, Deep Dish Television, and the New Museum's XFR STN exhibit on media preservation. Rebecca holds an M.A. in Moving Image Archiving and Preservation from NYU and a B.A. in English from Stanford University.

**Ethan Gates** graduated in spring of 2015 from NYU’s master’s program in Moving Image Archiving and Preservation, where he now works as the department’s resident technician. Hobbies include obsessing over Soviet cinema, fixing his family’s audiovisual equipment via telephone, and finding the best New Zealand Sauvignon Blanc.

**Michael Grant** is an archivist and video preservationist with a pile of jobs.  He preserves analog video for NYU Libraries and the Educational Video Center, catalogs and digitizes paper material in the archives at La MaMa E.T.C., and on the side does props and graphic design for some of the musicals that his amazing wife, Kit, writes.  He is just a silly little person, but somehow he gets to be involved with some really cool stuff.

**Dinah Handel** is an archivist concerned with the preservation of audio visual materials. She was a National Digital Stewardship Resident hosted by CUNY Television, a position that opened her eyes to the unique preservation challenges that audio visual materials present. She also cares about open source technology in archives, and building useful technology skills among archivists. Prior to CUNY TV, Dinah was an Archives Graduate Fellow at the Barnard College Archives and Special Collections. She holds an MLIS from Pratt Institute and a BA in Women's History from Hampshire College. She currently works as the Mass Digitization Coordinator at the New York Public Library.

**Mary Kidd** was a recent National Digital Stewardship Resident at New York Public Radio, where she worked on a major collection assessment of the stations’ digital archives and broadcast workflows.  Here she had the opportunity to attend and speak at the Radio Preservation Task Force conference in Washington DC, and will continue this work by assisting the RPTF on a radio archive metadata aggregation project in the upcoming months.  Prior to the NDSR, she worked as an audio archivist on the Erroll Garner Jazz Project, and has worked as a project archivist for the works of other musicians and artists including Bruce Haack and Genesis P’Orridge/Psychic TV.  She received her MLIS from Long Island University, and her BA in Visual Studies and Women’s Studies from the University of Toronto.

**Julia Kim** (Founding Member) is the Digital Assets Manager at the American Folklife Center of the Library of Congress. She was previously a National Digital Stewardship Resident hosted by NYU and formerly served as a technical intern on the New Museum's XFR STN exhibit. She has worked on collections at Anthology Film Archive and Fales Library and Special Collections, specializing in cataloging, drafting streaming video agreements, creating finding aids, and digitizing audio material. She chaired and curated "Surveillance," a symposium for the UNESCO World Day for Audiovisual Heritage in October, managed the repatriation of Colombian film heritage materials back to Proimágenes, and co-organized APEX 2013 in Bogota Colombia as well as APEX 2014 in Uruguay. She received her B.A. in Religious Studies and Visual Arts from Columbia University and expects her M.A. from NYU's Moving Image and Archiving Preservation Program in October 2014.

**Kristin MacDonough** (Founding Member) currently works as a Digitization Specialist at Video Data Bank in Chicago. As an active member of the Chicago Area Archivists, she has hosted video digitization workshops for its members, and she volunteers with the events subcommittee. Kristin has worked as a preservation and archival consultant for independent content creators and caretakers of AV materials and conducted project-based work with organizations such as the Bay Area Video Coalition, New Museum (XFR STN exhibition), Deep Dish TV, The Standby Program, as well as the Fundación Patrimonio Filmico Colombiano in Bogotá and the Universidad Católica del Uruguay in Montevideo through New York University’s Audiovisual Preservation Exchange (APEX) program. She has BA degrees in Art History and Design from The University of Texas at Austin, and received her MA in 2013 from NYU’s Moving Image Archiving and Preservation Program.

**Rachel Mattson** currently works as the Manager of Special Projects in the Archives at La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club. She is a  a hybrid historian/archivist/educator/ writer, and holds a PhD in U.S. History from NYU (2004) and an MLIS from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign (2014), where she was a Henderson Fellow in Preservation Studies. She has taught at the graduate and undergraduate levels at New York University, SUNY-New Paltz, and the University of Illinois, and as a teacher-educator supporting creative educational practice in New York’s high schools. Her writing has appeared in the Radical History Review, the Scholar and the Feminist, and in books published by Routledge and Thread Makes Blanket Press, among other publications.

**Karl McCool** is the Distribution Manager at Electronic Arts Intermix (EAI)  He studied Moving Image Archiving and Preservation at NYU. As a core member of Dirty Looks and as an independent film/video programmer, he has organized screenings in collaboration with The Kitchen, The Museum of Modern Art, Visual AIDS, and numerous other organizations.

**Yvonne Ng** currently works as Senior Archivist at WITNESS, where she manages a collection of human rights video and develops training materials on video archiving for human rights activists. She has led and co-facilitated numerous trainings and workshops on personal and community archiving, both locally and internationally. Yvonne frequently writes and speaks as an advocate for audiovisual archives and the people who create and maintain them. She is a graduate of NYU's Moving Image Archiving and Preservation M.A. program, and previously worked with NDIIPP's Preserving Digital Public Television project, and at NYU Libraries, NYPL, and Canadian Filmmakers' Distribution Centre.

**Pamela Vizner Oyarce** (Founding Member) is an expert in the management, care and handling of media collections, from film to born-digital materials (including audio). She holds an MA degree from the Moving Image Archiving and Preservation Program at New York University (MIAP). She has worked with a variety of organizations including Human Rights Watch, the New York Public Library, the National Film Archives of the Philippines, BB Optics, Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes de Chile, among others. She currently teaches Digital Preservation at Universidad de Chile, she is an Associate Director for Second Run Media Preservation and she is also a Research Associate for the Filmic project by Media Matters. Vizner has also been involved in the Audiovisual Preservation Exchange (APEX) Program since 2013. She holds a BA in Music and Sound Sciences from Universidad de Chile and has experience in audio mixing, editing, reconstruction and restoration. Additional areas of expertise are open source tools for digital preservation, database design and management (specially mySQL and FileMaker), Drupal development for AV collections.

